If you execute this [link Windows program](http://www.solomonlrussell.com/fall16/cs2/Projects/3/zion.exe) or this Mac program or this Linux program, you will see the player (indicated by @) in a rectangular arena filled with killer robots (usually indicated by R). At each turn, the user will select an action for the player to take. The player will take the action, and then each robot will move one step in a random direction. If a robot lands on the position occupied by the player, the player dies.

This smaller Windows version or Mac version or Linux version of the game may help you see the operation of the game more clearly.

At each turn the player may take one of these actions:

Stand. In this case, the player does not move or shoot.
Move one step up, down, left, or right. If the player attempts to move out of the arena (e.g., down, when on the bottom row), the result is the same as standing. It is allowable for the player to move to a position currently occupied by a robot. If no robot occupies that position after the robots have moved, the player survived the turn.
Shoot in one of the four directions up, down, left, or right. If there is at least one robot within 5 steps in that direction (this only matters with anything larger than a 6x6 arena), the nearest one in that direction is the candidate victim. If more than one robot is nearest (i.e., they occupy the same position), only one robot at that position is the candidate victim. With 2/3 probability, the candidate victim is damaged; with 1/3 probability, the shot is ineffective and no robot is damaged. A robot that has been damaged for the second time is destroyed (i.e., to destroy a robot takes two shots that hit).
The game allows the user to select the player's action: u/d/l/r for movement, su/sd/sl/sr for shooting, and just hitting enter for standing. The user may also type q to prematurely quit the game, or c to have the computer select the player's move.

When it's the robots' turn, each robot picks a random direction (up, down, left, or right) with equal probability. The robot moves one step in that direction if it can; if the robot attempts to move out of the arena, however, (e.g., down, when on the bottom row), it does not move. More than one robot may occupy the same position; in that case, instead of R, the display will show a digit character indicating the number of robots at that position (where 9 indicates 9 or more). If after the robots move, a robot occupies the same position as the player, the player dies.
